#summary Community-Contributed iTerm2 Color Schemes

= Introduction =

This page links to color schemes that users have created and chosen to share. Alpha 17 will support importing and exporting them; if you can't wait, download the latest nightly build.

= Instructions =

After downloading a color scheme file, go to Preferences->Profiles->Colors. Click on *Load presets...* and select *Import...*, pick the files you downloaded, and select OK. These files will be added to the *Load presets...* menu.

To share your colors with others, follow the instructions above but select "Export...". You'll be prompted to save. Pick the name carefully, as the name you give the file determines the name of the preset that people see when they import it. Edit this page and post a link to it in the *Color Schemes* section. You may find [http://iterm2.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tests/colors.sh this bash script] useful for previewing the color combinations.

= Color Schemes =

  * [http://ecto-plazm.deviantart.com/gallery/ Bastien Dejean's Collection]
  * [https://github.com/hardcore/iTerm-colors hardcore's iTerm color scheme (dark bg with light colors)]
  * [https://gist.github.com/raw/850268/a486445dc41a51d8fc14d6df290931cd83a821d4/wez.itermcolors Wez Furlong's ANSI colors on a back background scheme, with tweaked ANSI colors that are actually readable].  [https://gist.github.com/850268 (mirror on Gist)]
  * [http://www.iterm2.com/hostedcolors/Solarized%20Dark.itermcolors Solarized Dark] From [https://github.com/altercation/solarized/tree/master/iterm2-colors-solarized altercation]'s github page.
  * [http://www.iterm2.com/hostedcolors/Solarized%20Light.itermcolors Solarized Light] From [https://github.com/altercation/solarized/tree/master/iterm2-colors-solarized altercation]'s github page.
  * [https://github.com/mbadolato/iTerm2-Color-Schemes Dark Pastel, Desert, Grass, Novel, Red Sands] by mbadolato
  * [https://github.com/cap10morgan/solarized/tree/master/iterm2-colors-solarized cap10morgan's Solarized Fork]
  * [https://gist.github.com/967609 Colors resembling Terminal's defaults by jasoncodes]
  * [https://github.com/effkay/iTerm-argonaut Argonaut by effkay]
  * [https://gist.github.com/1015503 A higher-contrast version of Solarized Dark by by i@0x09.com]
  * [https://github.com/ChrisKempson/Tomorrow-Theme A version of Tomorrow Night by chris.kempson]
  * [https://gist.github.com/1124966 A scheme by  ilkka.s.laukkanen] where normal colors are from [http://stevelosh.com/blog/2009/03/candy-colored-terminal/ Steve Losh's "Candy Colored Terminal" blog post]
  * [http://www.nightlion.net/themes/2011/iterm-2-ssh-dark-color-theme-for-mac-osx/ NightLion theme for iTerm2 by nightlion00]
  * [https://gist.github.com/1183140 A scheme that resamples the popular twilight color scheme, making, mvim and vim looks the same. By fritzsche.steffen]
  * [https://gist.github.com/1360453 A color scheme by bartek.danek]
  * [https://github.com/markcho/iTerm2_LiquidCarbon Liquid Carbon Color Scheme by markcho]
  * [https://github.com/zdj/themes zeejaysapps themes]
  * [https://github.com/hukun01/iterm2.itermcolors hukun01's Dark Green and Gray color scheme]