#summary How to contribute to iTerm2 development

= Introduction =

Want to fix some bugs or add some features? Here's what to do.

= Details =

For any change, but especially new features, please post on the discussion list about what you plan to do. iTerm2 is complex in ways that might surprise you, and it's best to have a fully baked idea before diving in on anything big.

  * How do I submit a change?

For small stuff post a patch in the bug tracker. If you want to make regular contributions, mail the list and a branch will be created for you. Google Code has a
code review mechanism so branches can be reviewed before being integrated with the mainline. There's a todo-list item to switch to Mercurial, but I'm making really fast progress right now and I don't want to go yak shaving.

  * What are the lowest targeted OS and developer tools versions?

OS 10.5 is the SDK and oldest OS we support. I use Xcode 3.1.4 on my 10.5 machine and it still works, don't know about anything older.

  * Can Objc 2.0 features (like properties and fast enumeration) be used?

As long as it works in 10.5 it's ok. Fast enumeration is used in a few places.

  * Is there a style guide to adhere to?

I've been using this:

[http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/objcguide.xml Google Objective-C Style Guide]

But the line length limit is relaxed because Xcode doesn't work well
with breaking up method invocations like:

<pre>
[foo bar:[baz frotz:[blah spoo]]]
</pre>

A lot of the code does not meet the style guide, but I fix it up as I go.