#summary External iTerm2 press and blog posts.

= Introduction =

This page is a running collection of press and blog posts about iTerm2.


= Links =

  * [http://pe.ppy.sh/2010/11/308/ A Peppy Blog]
  * [http://hints.macworld.com/article.php?story=20100906001958358 Mac OS X Hints]
  * [http://www.tuaw.com/2010/09/02/iterm-2-in-early-development TUAW]
  * [http://tangledhelix.com/archive/iterm2-iterm Tangled Helix Blog]
  * [http://osxdaily.com/2011/01/03/split-terminal-mac-iterm2 OS X Daily]
  * [http://blog.ronvalente.net/post/2678668659/iterm-2-awesome blog.ronvalente.net]
  * [http://blog.rjshade.com/iterm2 rjshade.com]
  * [http://www.worldgoneweb.com/2011/iterm2-advanced-features/ World Gone Web]
  * [http://chris.chowie.net/2011/01/28/Simplifying-my-work-environment-with-iTerm2-and-zsh/ クリス]
  * [http://www.thurn.ca/ten_mac_osx_applications_i_couldnt_live_without Ten Mac OSX Applications I couldn't live without]

= Quotes =

  * "Instant Replay in iTerm2 Alpha 12, fantastic." - @amadeo
  * "I'm finding that iTerm2's fullscreen mode and VimRoom together are _better_ than WriteRoom" - @mikewest
  * "anyone on Mac OSX should try iTerm2. A terminal emulator that doesn't suck" - @alfredodeza
  * "Really loving iTerm2's autocomplete. Have been wishing for this feature for far too many years" - @juripakaste
  * "Really loving iTerm2. Seems to be the only decent terminal for OS X." - @jstew1974
  * "iTerm 2 keeps getting better and better. <3 this project." - @izs
  * "If you're using OSX: http://code.google.com/p/iterm2/ is now the best terminal emulator available..." - @yacoob
  * "iterm2 is out. i love iterm. id get it pregnant if i knew how"  - @soederpop
  * "Iterm2 now supports vertical split planes. Best mac app of the year." - @rauchg
  * "Holy crap! iTerm2 is the best thing ever, thanks @gnachman for an OS X terminal emulator that works!" - @k4y
  * "I've never used tabs for anything other than browsers, but I love love love (loop repeat) being able to split panes." - TJ Luoma
  * "So iTerm 2 is actually quite fantastic, I have never been a fan of iTerm. This new version blows it away!" - @ronaldvalente
  * "If you have a mac and have ever used terminal you just HAVE to install iterm2" - @heimdull
  * "I've never seen unicode entry support this good in a terminal emulator." - @ixplode
  * "Loving iTerm2, thanks so much for the awesomeness." - @phantommongoose