#summary Proprietary escape codes in iTerm2.

= Introduction =

This page documents all iTerm2-specific escape codes. These may not work properly in tmux or screen, and may have unknown effects on other terminal emulators. Proceed with caution.

== Request Attention ==
Makes the dock icon bounce if iTerm2 is not the current application.

{{{
^[]50;RequestAttention=P^G
^[]50;RequestAttention^G
}}}

P is "true" or "false". If not given, "false" is used. If true, it is a "critical" request. Critical requests bounce until iTerm2 is foregrounded; non-critical requests bounce for one second.

== Copy to Clipboard ==
Copy text to one of the system's clipboards.

First, send one of:
{{{
^[]50;CopyToClipboard=P^G
^[]50;CopyToClipboard^G
}}}

where P is the name of a clipboard. Legal values are "ruler", "find", "font", and "general". If P is not given, "general" is used.

Text sent after this code is appended to the specified clipboard. To stop appending, send:

{{{
^[]50;EndCopy^G
}}}

== Set Profile ==
Changes the current session's profile.

{{{
^[]50;SetProfile=P^G
^[]50;SetProfile^G
}}}

If P is given, it is a profile name. If P is empty or not given, the default profile is used. If P is given and not the name of a profile, nothing is done.

== Notify of Current Directory ==
Notifies iTerm2 of the current directory. A cmd-click on a filename printed after this will assume it is in the given directory.

{{{
^[]50;CurrentDir=P^G
}}}

where P is a path, such as /Users/georgen

== Clear Scrollback History ==
Erases the scrollback history.

{{{
^[]50;ClearScrollback^G
}}}

== Steal Focus ==
Brings the current window to the front, activating iTerm2 if it is not the current app.

{{{
^[]50;StealFocus^G
}}}

== Set Mark ==
Sets the "mark" to the current scroll position. Same as "Edit>Set Mark".
{{{
^[]50;SetMark^G
}}}

== Set cursor shape ==
{{{
^[]50;CursorShape=N^G
}}}
where N=0, 1, or 2.

0: Block
1: Vertical bar
2: Underline

Add this to your .vimrc to change cursor shape in insert mode:
{{{
let &t_SI = "\<Esc>]50;CursorShape=1\x7"
let &t_EI = "\<Esc>]50;CursorShape=0\x7"
}}}

This is derived from [http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Change_cursor_shape_in_different_modes Konsole].

== Set window title and tab chrome background color ==

To set the window title and tab color use this escape sequence:

{{{
^[]6;1;bg;red;brightness;N^G
^[]6;1;bg;green;brightness;N^G
^[]6;1;bg;blue;brightness;N^G
}}}

Replace N with a decimal value in 0 to 255.

Example in bash that turns the background purple:
{{{
echo -e "\033]6;1;bg;red;brightness;255\a"
echo -e "\033]6;1;bg;green;brightness;0\a"
echo -e "\033]6;1;bg;blue;brightness;255\a"
}}}

== Change the color palette ==

{{{
^[]Pnrrggbb^[\
}}}

Replace "n" with:
 *  0-f (hex) = ansi color
 *  g = foreground
 *  h = background
 *  i = bold color
 *  j = selection color
 *  k = selected text color
 *  l = cursor
 *  m = cursor text

rr, gg, bb are 2-digit hex value (for example, "ff").

Example in bash that changes the foreground color blue:
{{{
echo -e "\033]Pg4040ff\033\\"
}}}